[ resource generation processor] add new processor skeleton and configuration examples (#3266)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib: processor/metricsgenerationprocessor/README.md

# Metrics Generation Processor
**Status: under development; Not recommended for production usage.**

Supported pipeline types: metrics

## Description

The metrics generation processor (`metricsgenerationprocessor`) can be used to create new metrics using existing metrics following a given rule. Currently it supports following two approaches for creating a new metric.

> 1. It can create a new metric using two existing metrics applying one of the follwing arithmatic operations: add, subtract, multiply, divide and percent. One use case is to calculate the `pod.memory.utilization` metric like the following equation-

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. It can create a new metric from two existing metrics by applying one of the folliwing arithmetic operations: add, subtract, multiply, divide and percent. One use case is to calculate the `pod.memory.utilization` metric like the following equation-
```

`pod.memory.utilization` = (`pod.memory.usage.bytes` / `node.memory.limit`)

> 1. It can create a new metric by scaling the value of an existing metric with a given constant number. One use case is to convert `pod.memory.usage` metric values from Megabytes to Bytes (multiply the existing metric's value by 1000000)

Reviewer: Can any of the operations listed in the first capability statement be used with constant values? Would it make sense to?
```suggestion
1. It can create a new metric by scaling the value of an existing metric with a given constant number. One use case is to convert `pod.memory.usage` metric values from Megabytes to Bytes (multiply the existing metric's value by 1,048,576)
```

Author: > Can any of the operations listed in the first capability statement be used with constant values? Would it make sense to?

Yes, they can be. Two make the purpose clear I came up with the generationType idea where user has clear idea how they are calculating their metrics- is it only scaling a value or creating a metrics from two different existing metrics. We had a slight discussion in SIG meeting and many of us seems to be OK with this approach. Still, we can wait for more comments maybe.

Reviewer: I think it definitely makes sense to be able to apply any of the operations with a fixed value.  My question here is mostly around the term "scaling" which implies multiplication/division.  Addition/subtraction would be offsetting rather than scaling.  I'm not sure what a better name would be that would capture both, though, so don't consider this a strong objection to "scaling".

Author: I see. I thought the term "scaling" makes sense for any operation with constant value. I also can't think of a more generic term here.

## Configuration

Configuration is specified through a list of generation rules. Generation rules find the metrics which 

> matche the given metric names apply the operation to those metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
match the given metric names and apply the specified operation to those metrics.
```

```yaml
processors:
    # processor name: metricsgeneration
    metricsgeneration:

        # specify the metric generation rules

>         generation_rules:

Reviewer: Would simply `rules` be a better name for this field?  I imagine it's always going to follow the declaration of the `metricsgeneration` processor and seems to stutter in that way.  Similarly, some of the rule field names could be simplified by making use of their context:

```yaml
processors:
  metricsgeneration:
    rules:
      - name: <new metric name>
        type: {calculate, scale}
        metric1: <first metric>
        metric2: <second metric>
        operation: ...
```

Author: Makes sense. will update.

Author: updated.

>               # name of the new metric. this is a required field

Reviewer: ```suggestion
              # Name of the new metric. This is a required field.
```

            - new_metric_name: <new_metric_name>

>               # generation_type describes how the metric will be generated. it can either be calculate or scale calculate generates a metric applying the given operation on two operand metrics. scale operates only on  operand1 metric to generate the new metric.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
              # generation_type describes how the new metric will be generated. It can be one of `calculate` or `scale`.  Calculate generates a metric applying the given operation on two operand metrics. Scale operates only on  operand1 metric to generate the new metric.
```

              generation_type: {calculate, scale}

>               # this is a required field

Reviewer: ```suggestion
              # This is a required field.
```

              operand1_metric: <first_operand_metric>

>               # this field is required only if the generation_type is calculate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
              # This field is required only if the generation_type is "calculate".
```

              operand2_metric: <second_operand_metric>

>               # operation specifies which atrithmatic operation to apply. it can be one of the five supported operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
              # Operation specifies which arithmetic operation to apply. It must be one of the five supported operations.
```

              operation: {add, subtract, multiply, divide, percent}

> ```

Reviewer: Where does 'scale_by' fit in here?

Author: Technacally, `scale_by` will work with all of these options.

## Example Configurations

### Create a new metric using two existing metrics
```yaml
# create pod.cpu.utilized following (pod.cpu.usage / node.cpu.limit)
rules:
    - new_metric_name: pod.cpu.utilized
      generation_type: calculate
      operand1_metric: pod.cpu.usage
      operand2_metric: node.cpu.limit

>       operation: divide

Reviewer: I still think the rest of these field names should be simplified as well:

```yaml
processors:
  metricsgeneration:
    rules:
      - name: <new metric name>
        type: {calculate, scale}
        metric1: <first metric>
        metric2: <second metric>
        operation: ...
```

Author: I prefer `generation_type` so that people don't mix it up with metric type. Also, I saw other examples where we used the prefix `operand1_` which gives them clear idea about numerator and denominator. This design was discussed and I feel like current namings are OK. Expecting a second thought.

Reviewer: v0v

I feel that the current names are overly verbose and somewhat awkward, but it's not a hill I want to fight on.

Reviewer 2: Let's go with @Aneurysm9's suggested names, they look much better to me

```

### Create a new metric scaling the value of an existing metric
```yaml
# create pod.memory.usage.bytes from pod.memory.usage.megabytes
generation_rules:
    - new_metric_name: pod.memory.usage.bytes
      generation_type: scale
      operand1_metric: pod.memory.usage.megabytes
      operation: multiply

>       scale_by: 1000000

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      scale_by: 1048576
```
